[Weave] Vercel integration (#2414)
wandb/docs: weave/guides/integrations/vercel_ai_sdk.mdx

---
title: "Vercel AI SDK"
description: "Trace Vercel AI SDK calls in Weave using OpenTelemetry"
---

You can trace [Vercel AI SDK](https://ai-sdk.dev/) calls in Weave using [OpenTelemetry (OTel)](https://opentelemetry.io/). The Vercel AI SDK is a TypeScript toolkit for building AI-powered applications with framework support for Next.js, Nuxt, SvelteKit, and other frameworks. It has built-in OpenTelemetry support through its `experimental_telemetry` option.

This guide shows you how to configure OTel to send traces from the Vercel AI SDK to Weave. You can use the AI SDK with Next.js or as a standalone Node.js application.

For more information on OTel tracing in Weave, see [Send OTel traces to Weave](../tracking/otel).

### Prerequisites

> The Next.js and Node.js in this article examples require the same dependencies. To start:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both of the Next.js and Node.js examples in this guide require the same dependencies. To start:
```

1. Install the following Vercel and OTel libraries:

    ```bash
    npm install ai @ai-sdk/openai @opentelemetry/api @opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node @opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base @opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-proto @opentelemetry/resources zod
    ```

> 2. Then set the following environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Set the following environment variables:
```

import { BatchSpanProcessor } from "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base";
import { OTLPTraceExporter } from "@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-proto";
import { resourceFromAttributes } from "@opentelemetry/resources";
import { openai } from "@ai-sdk/openai";
import { generateText } from "ai";

const WANDB_API_KEY = process.env.WANDB_API_KEY!;

// Configure OTel exporter to use W&B Weave endpoint.
const exporter = new OTLPTraceExporter({
  url: "https://trace.wandb.ai/otel/v1/traces",
  headers: { "wandb-api-key": WANDB_API_KEY },
});

// Configure your W&B credentials.
const provider = new NodeTracerProvider({
  resource: resourceFromAttributes({
    "wandb.entity": "<your-team-name>",
    "wandb.project": "<your-project-name>",
  }),
  spanProcessors: [new BatchSpanProcessor(exporter)],
});

provider.register();

// Add experiment_telemetry field to function.
async function main() {
  const result = await generateText({
    model: openai("gpt-4o-mini"),
    prompt: "Explain OpenTelemetry in one sentence.",
    experimental_telemetry: { isEnabled: true },
  });

  console.log(result.text);

  await provider.shutdown();
}

main();
```

> Call `provider.shutdown()` before the process exits to flush any pending spans.

Reviewer: just confirming : shutdown is only for this Node.js example and not for Next.js?
